When an experiment is performed, we are interested mainly in some function of the outcome as opposed to the actual outcome itself.

A random variable is a function that assigns a real number to each outcome in the sample space of a random experiment.

Definitions:

A discrete random variable is a random variable with a finite (or countably infinite) ranges

Number of scratches on a surface, number of students present, number of red marbles in a jar.

A continuous random variable is a random variable with an interval of real numbers for its range.

temperature, time, voltage, weight, height of students in class, distance traveled between towns.

1
Decide whether a continuous (C) random variable is the best for each of the following variables:


Number of heads when flipping three coins.


The volume of gasoline that is lost to evaporation during the filling of a gas tank.


The temperature of a cup of coffee served at a restaurant.


The time until a projectile returns to Earth.

Correct
The time until a projectile returns to Earth: C (Continuous)
Time is measured on a continuous scale, as it can take any value (e.g., 5.3 seconds or 12.8 seconds). It is not limited to discrete units.

The volume of gasoline that is lost to evaporation during the filling of a gas tank: C (Continuous)
Volume is a continuous variable because it can take any fractional value within a range (e.g., 0.05 liters or 0.031 liters).

Number of heads when flipping three coins: Not C (Discrete)
This is a discrete random variable since the number of heads can only be whole numbers (0, 1, 2, or 3), not fractional.

The temperature of a cup of coffee served at a restaurant: C (Continuous)
Temperature is measured on a continuous scale, as it can take any real value within a range (e.g., 75.3°C or 76.1°C).

2
Identify the type of random variable and the set of possible values for each random variable. (Make a reasonable estimate based on experience, where necessary.)

The number of heads in two tosses of a coin.


Discrete random variables


Continuous random variables

Correct
3
Identify the type of random variable and the set of possible values for each random variable. (Make a reasonable estimate based on experience, where necessary.)

The amount of liquid in a 12 -ounce can of soft drink.


Continuous random variables


Discrete random variables

Correct
In some cases, the random variable X is actually discrete but, because the range of possible values is so large, it might be more convenient to analyze X as a continuous random variable.

Example 1: Define X to be 1 if a bead is blue and red otherwise.

import numpy as np

x = np.array(["red", "blue"])
beads=np.repeat(x, [2, 3], axis=0)

def beads_x():
    sample=np.random.choice(beads)
    if sample=="blue":
        x=1
    else:
        x=0
    return x
Here X is a random variable: every time we select a new bead the outcome changes randomly.

beads_x()
4
Consider a game where a fair six-sided die is rolled.

Complete the function and run it in the notebook. The function should return a random integer between 1 and 6 (both inclusive).

import numpy as np

def roll_die():
    pass  # Generates a random integer between 1 and 6 (inclusive)
Correct
def roll_die():
    return np.random.randint(1, 7)  # Generates a random integer between 1 and 6 (inclusive)
5
Consider a scenario where a coin is flipped.

Complete the function and execute it in the notebook. The function should return 0 or 1.

import numpy as np

def flip_coin():
    pass  # Returns 1 if the outcome is heads, 0 otherwise
Correct
def flip_coin():
    return np.random.randint(0, 2)  # Generates a rando
